[version] 0.8.18

Fixed no power icon remaining on production facilities even when power is available.

[version] 0.8.17

Fixed a crash error with missing .dll files.
Changed rotation keybinds to Q and E by default.
Added sounds to shotgun and assault rifle.
Added a missing tooltip of errors when a facility is selected.
Improved the outlook of the build menu help window with explanations for rotation and build view buttons.
Ship resource rules can now only be set in the tactical view mode to minimize the risk of setting rules to the wrong ship. 
Crew members will move out of the way if they are standing on a hull tile that is being removed.
Fixed zoom in/out keybindings behaving the wrong way, was reversed.
Fixed edge scrolling in the starmap.
Fixed the return home command for mining pods.
Fixed a bug which prevented setting a prisoner area on certain ships.
Fixed a problem with trading.
Fixed a problem with hyperspace jump button being left on the screen after a jump.
The Keybind "Delete" will now also toggle dismantle on the a selected object.
Removed the interact icon button from storages, which have nothing a drafted crew member can pick up.
Fixed a problem with derelict ships not being seized by the player.
In-floor Power Node restrictions changed - Can now be built under wallmounts and next to doors.
Fixed problem with prisoners trying to go and eat to a spot they don't have a path with permission to travel. 
Fixed problem when releasing multiple prisoners the dialog tree always selects the first prisoner.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.16

Added confirmation to fullscreen toggle and borderless toggle in options. Reverts back to windowed mode after a certain time.

[version] 0.8.15

Fixed a crash with cloud saves.

[version] 0.8.14

Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.13

Fixed a crash when talking to surrendered pirates on their ship. 

[version] 0.8.12

Saves are supported from previous versions (0.8.11 and 0.8.10).
The game has an end and an endless mode. You will need to start a new game to have this feature, old saves will not have this.
More colors added to crew member outfit customization.
Added new tutorial texts.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.11

Added a new hyperspace travel effect.
Improved all translations.
Various smaller polish.
Added tooltips to sector information icons.
Added new tutorial objectives.
Fixed some issues with cloud save.
Improved graphics of shield generator.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.10

Saved games are not supported from previous versions.
Fixed Recycler working/restrictions area.
Crew will sleep 1 hour less by default.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.9

Polished Graphics for Power Capacitor.
Quick bug fixes.

[version] 0.8.8

Savegames are not supported from previous versions.
Prisoners can now be recruited, and there is a chance prisoners might rebel in the process.
You can now attack and kill enemy crew members who have surrendered, or are your prisoners.
Crew member found alive in hypersleep chambers are now drafted by default.
Rebalanced trading prices for resources to represent overall availability and value in a better way.
Plastics and steel plates are now used to create weapons.
Chemical Refinery can produce plastics.
Crew members will now clean up blood splatter.
Added some new notifications.
Improved UI elements.
Improved translations.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.7

Alpha 8 - Saves from Alpha 7 should work.
Build Menu overhaul - Improved and polished the Build Menu.
Polished translations.
You can now bind shields, scanners, and turrets to groups.
Modified the abandoned mining station to have storages close to the airlock.
Added missing characters for some languages.
Fixed a bug which stopped NPC ships from jumping away.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.6

Fixed a crash when canceling rebuild.

[version] 0.8.5

Added some of the missing translations.
Fixed a problem with derelict ships where no doors existed to the hallway.
Fixed a problem with smaller aliens getting stuck on empty space next to floor.
Fixed bug with crew not moving corpses off derelicts.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.8.4

Alpha 7
Saved games are not supported from Alpha 6.

Added a game customization menu, with tweaks for starting resources, galaxy resources, alien presence, sandbox mode and much more.
Sandbox mode added as an option to the game customization screen, which activates a sandbox category in the build menu.
Added game difficulty levels, which are pre-sets of the advanced game customization options.
Added a crew selection screen.
Added crew outfit customization.
Improved the starmap and added fog of war.
Added special claimable derelict ships to the game, these can be added to your fleet if you find them.
Added more spaceships for the various faction fleets.
Polished the starmap backgrounds.
Tons of icons added to various buttons in the game.

Localized the game to 11 languages: German, French, Spanish, Italian, Russian, Simplified-Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Czech, Polish, Portuguese-Brazil.

Shuttle will now move and reveal itself if left under a ship or station.
Fixed time step becoming too big and crew members warping.
Fixed levitation bug when a characters was eating in midst of a fire.
All game settings are now saved in settings.xml in the install folder. Your game settings might have been reset as a result.
Bug fixes.

[version] 0.8.3

Fixed one more bug with temperature.
Gas scrubber carbon production reduced a bit.

[version] 0.8.2

Fixed fleet readiness buttons to correct places.
Fixed a bug with temperature.
Fixed a bug with corpses on autopsy table.


[version] 0.8.1

Added dozens more tooltips to various buttons in the game.
Adjusted the build restrictions for airlocks to prevent bugs, you cannot build airlocks too close to hyperdrives or other airlocks.
You can now select the ambience time between music tracks from the game settings.
Gas scrubber hazardous gas issue has been fixed.
Fixed bug where crew would sometimes wander outside on leisure time.
Ship resource and storage manage tabs renamed to "rules" and modified the menu.
Improved certain UI elements, like when drafting crew members and moving them around.
Modified the thermal system to work in a better way.
Added a tips section to the loading screen.
Updated some in-game texts.
Bug fixes.

[version] 0.8.0
Alpha 6
Savegames are not supported from alpha 5.

Ship-to-Ship battles implemented.
Modified and implemented new features to the User Interface to support ship-to-ship battles.
Implemented various ship-to-ship battle effects, such as explosions and shield effects.
3 new consoles to build: Weapons console, Shields console and Operations console.
New Facilities to build: Energy Turret, Shield Generator, Hull Stabilizer, Scanner and Solar Panel.
Added a new source of power, the solar panel, with efficiency based on the distance from the star system sun.
4 New in-game music tracks added.
Modified and created some new ships for the factions you encounter.
Smaller improvements to the user interface and various in-game texts.
Balanced power generators.
Improved power view mode.
Added adjustable area range setting to power nodes.
Added in-floor power node.
Gas scrubber now produces carbon over time.
Increased certain starting resources slightly in scenario 01 and 02.
Autosave interval time is now 5 minutes in real time.
Added Hide UI keybind, for taking nice screenshots without the UI.
Help menu added with a link button to the Space Haven Official Wiki/Guide.
Scrapper renamed to Recycler.
Life Support renamed to Oxygen Generator.
Core renamed to Power Generator.
Tweaked default crew priority settings.
Rebalanced Optronics Fabricator, Cell Fuser, Advanced Assembler, Chemical refinery production lines.
Added a jobs associated with this facility tab for facilities, allowing manual assign when needed.
Tweaked traits to include things like surrender rate. A hero will be unlikely to surrender.
Fixed a bug where sector content was not updated when entering a new sector.
Fixed a bug where the resolution could not be bigger than 5280 pixels wide.
Fixed renaming crew member to change the name in the top list also.
Many other bug fixes.

[version] 0.7.2

Fixed scared condition not going away.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.7.1

Fixed a crash.

[version] 0.7.0

Alpha 5
User interface updated.
Spaceships now have roofs! And you can see them.
Tweaked default surrender rate from 10% to 0%.
Improved notification texts.
New upcoming version feature in main menu.
Names in credits are now alphabetical.
Improved construct job placement, builders will no longer wall themselves in a corner so easily. 
Removed "set default trade" on airlocks and added "allow trade" instead. You can now have many airlocks and do multiple trades if possible (npc needs multiple airlocks or different ships).
A new community section in the main menu of the game.

Start resources increased for the sandbox scenario.
Derelict ships are now less populated by the big alien creature, relieving the frustration which was caused by them spawning too frequently.
You can now bind to groups using ctrl+(0-9).
There is now an even faster speed setting. Shortcut keys for speed renamed to accomodate for this change.

Fixed a bug with saving sectors.
Fixed a crash when a trait had a missing text.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.6.5

Small graphical interface tweaks.
Fixed bug with releasing prisoner back to faction.
Fixed bug with loading game and crew which where sleeping wakes up standing on bed.
Fixed small bugs.

[version] 0.6.4

Small graphical interface tweaks.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.6.3

The new 2-tile couch is now in the build menu under furniture.
Fixed bugs related to prisoners.
Fixed crash when loading savegame and the monster was dragging crewmember.
Fixed small bugs.

[version] 0.6.2

Fixed bug where npc craft was not removed when hangar was salvaged. 
Fixed small bugs.

[version] 0.6.1

Fixed issue where crew might take off their spacesuit on derelicts.
Fixed crash issue when trying to dock to platform.

[version] 0.6.0
Alpha 4
Savegames are not supported from alpha 3.
New alien added and alien behavior implemented further. Aliens can now incapacitate your crew members and drag them to their lair to be cocooned to walls.
Medical bed functionality implemented, along with tending to patients.
Medical supplies added. Injured crew members laying in medical beds need IV fluid as food.
Implemented Doctor skill. Doctors can patch up open wounds, this requires medical supplies.
Crew might now need medical bed if they get the open wound condition.
Implemented communication with other factions. Ability to hail other factions and negotiate. 
Boarding implemented, with enemies boarding the player and vice versa.
Enemy can now take your crew members as prisoners, and vice versa.
Implemented the ability to surrender, agree to cease fire and pay settlements.
Implemented faction relationships, discussion mood and power balance when interacting with a faction.
New Surrender rate added for crew members. Some will be more prone to surrender than others during fights.
Engine mass limit lifted to 1600 from 1200.
Starting resources for scenario 01 and 02 buffed slightly for ice in asteroids, food, tech blocks and energy blocks.
Created some new ships for many of the factions instead of just one default ship for everyone.

"Scanning" in systems menu has been renamed to "Comms".
Logistics can now be turned off for facilities, meaning that new resources will not be delivered to the facility.
Improved the functionality of character conditions.
Trade is now required as a permission to be able to trade with a faction.
Only drafted characters can lock doors in combat mode.
Added prisoner area permission tool to build menu. Implemented also support for possible other area permissions.
Improved and added new user interface notifications and information texts for various menus.
When selecting a blueprint the lower left information menu will show which resources are still missing.
When checking a refinery the information will state if you have needed resources stored.
Fixed many bugs.

Graphical:
Shuttle graphic polished.
Shuttle, mining pod and character spacesuit thrusters polished.
Walls polished and new 2-tile couch added.
Created new alien and alien animations polished.
Resources added and icons polished.
Added tactical icons for comms and buttons polished.
Tweaked fonts, character icons.
Crew surrender and prisoner related stuff.
+ General improvements and polish to various elements.

[version] 0.5.3

Fixed a bug that caused the game to crash when jumping to hyperspace.
Fixed a bug that made jumping npc ships return to same sector, but continue traveling on the starmap.

[version] 0.5.2

Fixed bug when transfering stuff from derelict stopped working when also moving a corpse.

[version] 0.5.1

Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.5.0
Alpha 3
Savegames are not supported from alpha 2.
A new resource tree with new added resources and new facilities.
Sandbox scenario added - Start in a sector with a ton of resources!
Ability to haul dead bodies and turn dead humans into human meat. If times are desperate...
Ability to haul dead alien bodies and turn dead aliens into monster meat. Time to become an alien hunter and sell that sweet monster meat for the best price on the market!
Rename your own characters and ships (not NPC). This feature was asked for a lot! To keep all naming rewards value intact NPC characters or ships cannot be renamed. This also applies to shuttles and mining pods.
A first set of backer names submitted imported to the game. We will import more later on!
General improvements to the UI, such as improved resource categories in storages and ship resource management menus and the ability to customize which resources are shown in the top bar (Added resource display settings in ship settings.)
You can now choose to start a new game with or without tutorial objectives. Tutorial objectives window has been made more noticeable.
Food values have changed and offer now more in hunger value. 
Trade statuses added to trade notification in top right corner.
Power view mode now shows where power is being generated.
Power nodes and cores has reduced power storage capacity.
New Facility: Power capacity node. Stores more power but has smaller power radius.
Toilets and kitchen show a bad environment icon if they can't be used.
Resource categories changed in storage and ship resource management.
Combined Fabrication and Refine jobs to Industry.
Removed Engine job.
Build costs for facilities have been changed.
Tactical map now has various icons for ships giving information of their status.
New music track added to the music pool.
Fixed so many bugs that we ran out of them. Hah! Just kidding, we're sure you can still find some =)

[version] 0.4.1

Improved expedite functionality.
Improved life support functionality, doesn't produce oxygen in vain. Helps to save water. 
Fixed crash on startup when no internet connection is available.
Fixed small bugs.

[version] 0.4.0

Alpha 2
Savegames are not supported from alpha 1 anymore.
Create new ship menu added. You can now create a fleet of ships. 
Deploy fleet menu added. When dropping to normal space you can move your ships around the sector map. 
Sketch tools added. You can now sketch ship hull. When you want the sketch to be built, you can use the activate sketch tool.
Hypsersleep chamber is now smaller.
Small UI tweaks.
Hull breach warnings added.
Wall mounted objects now require that the tile in front of them is free. 
Hull building view will now show objects that is not constructed yet.
Couches now require free tiles at the ends. 
Fixed graphic problems on macOS with a retina display.
New salvage mechanics. You can now salvage almost everything from a derelict.
New facility scrapper. 
You can now multiselect in transfer window when transfering resources between ships.
Jump menu overhaul. You can now choose if force work is applied when preparing for jump. 
Better chance to find new crew members on derelict ships.
Refining now produces 1 item instead of 2.
Fixed bugs.

[version] 0.3.22

Fixed growbeds producing way too much oxygen. 
Artificial meat no longer produces oxygen.
Reduced CO2 need for growbeds.
Crops now need tending to grow optimally. Untended plants will grow more slowly.
Crops can now die from cold or heat.
Crew exhale more CO2.
Crops now have planting/tending skill level. If a botanist with a lower skill plants/tends to a plant, it will suffer a growth rate penalty.

Fixed issue with cloud account login.
Fixed a trading bug when trading with multiple ships at the same time.
Power nodes now update link counts when dismantled.
Raised small storage capacity from 15 to 50.
Raised alien health and attack energy damage.
Starmap will no longer generate planets for explored systems that are far away from player when loading. If player travels back to these systems, planets are generated.  
Small UI tweaks.
Power viewmode now shows where the facility draws power from.

[version] 0.3.21

Quick patch to fix remaining hull build restrictions.
Fixed grow beds requiring water again on when loading.

[version] 0.3.20

Fixed build restrictions left by airlock and engine.
Fixed hull removing issues, where it would be half done or not at all. 
Crew will now get food from unsafe storages. Crew cannot eat in space suit, so they change out of space suit and walk to a safe location to eat. If the environment is unsafe, they will take damage.
Fixed issue with moving a craft to a new hangar.
Fixed issue with cryo pod, where you could wake up people and they'd have cryo sleep condition.
NPC Ships should no longer be able to spawn in your ships area.
Fixed issue where a shuttle was lost and the hangar still thinks it's there.
Fixed pathfinding issue where crew would go a path outside instead of inside the ship
Fixed crashing issues.

Grow beds have new settings and added some plant error messages.
New Facility: CO2 Regulator

[version] 0.3.19

Cloud login bug should be resolved.
Pasting into textfield should be supported now
Quick bug fixes

[version] 0.3.18

Alpha 1
Fixed bugs
Added more animations to characters
Characters will now play with arcade machine
Characters will now use jukebox
You can now explore more than 1 solar system
You can now change floor and wall look from the STYLE menu
2 new music tracks

